What is a MUD anyway?

Arrrrrgh! I've logged in  - now what do I do?

The area presented to you when you first login is provided to answer this type 'exits' and go in the direction of the information you want.  Remember the 'commands' command and have a look at 'help new' and you should be kicking ass in no time.

So how (and whom) do I ask for help?

Use the question command and those who want to and can help will, if you are really stuck then type 'who' and look for users with an 'i' in their flags, these folks are the IMM's (immortals) and help run the game and should be able to help.


How do I explore?

Have a look at 'help movement', once you have mastered the commands then it's just a matter of spending some time finding your way around, at any time you can type recall and you will be returned to your guild.

There's something in this room, can I do anything with it?

Have a go, try 'examine'ing it or maybe give it a push or pull.  Many objects can be 'use'd possibly on their own or in conjunction with other things.

Eek! This room has a person in it - is this another player?

If you are using colour then players will be shown in blue, if not then have a quick look at the who list, if they appear there then they are fellow players... say hi?

So what do I do with these `mobs'?

Mobs are computer controlled players, not all are bad but some can be pretty aggressive, most mobs will interract to a certain degree and some are essential to solving certain tasks.  Be carefull when hacking away mobs have friends, at times very loyal friends.

I ran away! What happened?

This is called your 'wimpy' attribute, this will automatically cause you to flee if your hit points go too low. see 'help wimpy' for more details.

So how do I get better at fighting?

Use the 'consider' command wisely, try to win as many fights as possible and gain experience (xp) from them, as you increase in level your basic abilities in fighting will improve along with the range of skills available.

Okay, so I've explored and killed a few mobs and gained a few levels.  What now?

Make sure you practice skills and train your character's atrributes (see 'help practice' and 'help train'), collect better equipment, master the scrolls and complete quests.

What's all this about guilds?

Initially your character joins the adventurers guild, this will give you a reasonable all round ability, at certains levels you may choose to specialise and join one of the many guilds, you may only do this once and it will determine the direction in which you can develop.

Will changing my attributes help me?

Your guild will give you the opportunity to advance your attributes, depending on the nature of the guild will determine any bonuses given.  The stronger your attributes are the more effective your character will be.

Hang on a mo, what exactly is the point of this game anyway?

To find as many blue smarties as you can!
